So in the previous lecture,
I concluded by showing you a graph
of a normal advertising campaign.
So this is real data from a real
campaign that I collected.
And what we see on the x
axis is the amount
of websites that exposes
specific consumer to ads.
And on the y axis on the left,
we'll see the click-through rate.
What is the the probability of a consumer
clicking on those ads if they see more and
more of ads on different channels?
Now is this conclusion,
is this model correct?
Let's try to think about it, right?
Does it make sense that the more
we expose consumers to ads,
the more they click on them?
Are there any alternative explanations, or
can we think of other things
that might happen in this data?
You know what?
Let's try to look at a different
experiment we tried and
see what the data tells us.
So because we measure click-through rates,
and
because those networks are actually
compensated by click-through rates,
that is, the advertisers pays the websites
if consumers clicked more on their ads.
Maybe the websites will
show ads to consumers who
will actually click the ads anyway.
That is, the websites know how
to recognize consumers that
click a lot of ads.
And they show them the ads even
though the ads have no impact.
And that might be what may be going on.
So let's take a look at this graph.
And this graph is very, very interesting.
In this case, what we see is, we show the
click-through rate, or the probability of
clicking an ad after a consumer has
already visited the advertiser website.
That is, a consumer has said,
I'm going to buy the product
with a very high probability.
And only after that, the website starts
showing the consumer those ads, many,
many, many, many times.
And what we can see is that
If you show an individual
ad after that visit, actually there is
some increase in click-through rates.
Actually consumers say this ad reminded
me of the product I didn't buy, and
leave in my shopping cart.
Or maybe I would like to
look at that brand again.
And actually, there's a bump there,
moving from 0 to 1,
from seeing no ads to
actually seeing 1 ad.
But when we increase the number of
ads shown more and more, that is when
we show more and more ads on different
websites, we go back to the same
click-through rate that we had just
before we showed the additional ad.
That is, those websites actually
know how to recognize consumers
who will click the ads anyway but
have no impact on the click-through rate.
The click-through rate doesn't go up.
It just remains the same and
I show more and more ads.
So just to conclude, we've seen examples
of how applying the same descriptive
data in the same predictive
analytics to different goals and
different models actually finds
a different optimal action.
And we've shown how to find this
action depending on our goal.
Many times we think or
we sometimes make the mistake of saying
this graph describes what
consumers actually do.
If I decrease the price,
the consumers will buy more.
And if I increase the price,
the consumers will buy less,
which is kind of a general truth.
But what we don't know is what
happens outside of this graph.
And many times, the interpretation as
a causal model is slightly problematic,
as we've seen in the previous slide.
If we think that ads are shown
randomly to consumers, then of course,
when we show more ads, the graph implies
that consumers click more on the ads.
But if the websites can choose who to
show the ads to, maybe they will show
the ads to consumers that will click the
ads anyway just to maximize their profit.
And then our conclusion is incorrect.
So to summarize,
what we need to do is we need to be very,
very careful about drawing
the conclusions from the descriptive data
into an action that might
yield the wrong conclusion.
In order to solve that, we sometimes need
to run an experiment or we need to test
different models to see which one
actually describes the reality the best.
So if you would like to learn more about
this topics, what I've discussed in this
set of lectures is covered in different
fields in economics, in marketing, and
also in other areas.
Specifically, consumer theory in economics
covers basic pricing theories and
the optimization exercises we've
done in this set of lectures.
In addition, competition and
more sophisticated models require
knowing some game theory.
And within economics, the field is
called industrial organization, or IO,
that looks at how companies compete and
also interact with consumers.
In the next set of lectures, you will
see a range of applications discussing
different case studies and applying
the different principles you've learned in
this lectures in the customer
analytics course.